README.md, before:

# neon-vercel-pgtyped

**In development: not currently working**

This repo demonstrates using [pgTyped](https://github.com/adelsz/pgtyped) with [Neon's serverless driver](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@neondatabase/serverless) on [Vercel](https://vercel.com/) Edge Functions.

We implement a simple app that generates a JSON listing of the user's nearest 10 UNESCO World Heritage sites via IP geolocation (data copyright © 1992 – 2022 [UNESCO/World Heritage Centre](https://whc.unesco.org/en/syndication/)).

Note: at the time of writing, WebSockets are not supported in the local Vercel development environment, so `npx vercel dev` is not usable.

## Deploy

* Ensure the `psql` client is installed

* Create a Neon database and make a note of the connection string.

* Clone this repo, then:

```bash
# get dependencies
npm install

# set up Vercel
npx vercel login
npx vercel link

# create DATABASE_URL environment variable, remote and local
npx vercel env add DATABASE_URL  # paste in the connection string: postgres://...
npx vercel env pull .env.local  # now bring it down into ./.env.local for local use

# create the schema and copy data to DB
(source .env.local \
 && curl -s https://gist.githubusercontent.com/jawj/a8d53ff339707c65128af83b4783f4fe/raw/45dbcc819b00ecb72f80b0cf91e01b3d055662b5/whc-sites-2021.psql \
 | psql $DATABASE_URL)

# create/update pgTyped queries and types
npm run update-pgtyped

# ... and deploy
npx vercel deploy
```

* Now visit the deployed function at the URL given

Commit message:

Got pgTyped working with vercel dev and vercel deploy

README.md, after:

# neon-vercel-pgtyped

This repo demonstrates using [pgTyped](https://github.com/adelsz/pgtyped) with [Neon's serverless driver](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@neondatabase/serverless) on [Vercel](https://vercel.com/) Edge Functions.

We implement a simple app that generates a JSON listing of the user's nearest 10 UNESCO World Heritage sites via IP geolocation (data copyright © 1992 – 2022 [UNESCO/World Heritage Centre](https://whc.unesco.org/en/syndication/)).

### How it works

The pgTyped package tries to import Node.js modules that aren't available on Edge Functions.

We provide shims for these modules in `./shims`, which are listed as `file:` packages in `package.json`. Since almost nothing from these modules is actually required at runtime, they are largely just empty stubs.

To make the shims work with Edge Functions requires a build step. We use `esbuild` to bundle the source files in `./api-src` with all dependencies, depositing the output files in `./api`. The build command is found in `package.json` > `"scripts"` > `"build"`.

Note that the line `export const config = { runtime: 'edge' }`, which is required to create an Edge function, is not present in the source files. Because it must take this specific form, it is instead appended at the end of the build process. It can be edited (e.g. to add a `regions` key) in the `--footer:js=` argument of the `esbuild` build command.

## Deploy

* Ensure the `psql` client is installed.

* Create a Neon database and make a note of the connection string from the [Neon console](https://console.neon.tech/).

* Clone this repo, then:

```bash
# get dependencies
npm install
npm install -g vercel@latest

# set up Vercel
npx vercel login
npx vercel link

# create DATABASE_URL environment variable, remote and local
npx vercel env add DATABASE_URL  # paste in the connection string: postgres://...
npx vercel env pull .env.local  # now bring it down into ./.env.local for local use

# create the schema and copy data to DB
(source .env.local \
 && curl -s https://gist.githubusercontent.com/jawj/a8d53ff339707c65128af83b4783f4fe/raw/45dbcc819b00ecb72f80b0cf91e01b3d055662b5/whc-sites-2021.psql \
 | psql $DATABASE_URL)

# create/update pgTyped queries and types
npm run update-pgtyped

# test
npx vercel dev

# ... and deploy
npx vercel deploy
```

## Feedback and support

Please visit [Neon Community](https://community.neon.tech/) or [Support](https://neon.tech/docs/introduction/support).
